Hey Brian, hey everyone.
Hey.
Happy to have you all here. Thanks for watching the live stream
or the replay of the live stream. Thanks for that.
So let's go ahead and kick this off, huh?
Yeah, let's do it.
Perfect.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes where we deliver Python news and headlines
directly to your earbuds. This is episode 352, recorded September 12th,
>>Michael Kennedy And I'm Brian Okken.
>>Danny Arguetty And this episode is sponsored by us, supported
by us.
Support the podcast by choosing our courses, listening to our podcasts including the new
one by Brian, Python People, and the Patreon supporters.
And find us on fosstodon.org, Brian, me, and the show.
The link's in the show notes.
And also show notes have how to attend the live session if you want.
>> Yes.
>> Brian, when do you got to start our day here?
>> I feel like it's the start of school.
So I think I feel like a helicopter parent.
>> That's right.
Have you got your homework done?
Was anyone mean to you?
Can I help you out, sweetie?
>> So the first topic is called Heliclockter.
And it is, it is a, like, apparently that's a pun on helicopter parenting, maybe.
I don't know.
So like helicopter, but clock, get it?
Kind of a helicopter.
So this was submitted by Peter Nielsen.
I think he was involved in this, but the idea is, is it's like, it's like date times, but
they're a little bit better.
So apparently one of the frustrations that this group had was with date, normal date
and they looked into other things,
is being able to just have a date time
where you can just enter like the time,
but have it be like aware of what time zone it's in.
So the big thing about this is,
is a subclass of date time with some extra features.
So you've got a date time TZ,
which is a time zone aware date time.
And then you've got a local one,
which ensures that the time zone is local time,
and then a UTC.
So there are some other solutions out there
that deal with, just assume UTC plus zero,
but that's often not convenient.
And I guess one of the things they had
was they wanted to be able to have
date time items as objects,
and then be able to sort them,
but have them keep, like maintain what time zone
they were created in and stuff,
which is kind of an interesting thing.
So they've got, it looks just like working with time zones.
So it looks pretty easy to work with
if you've ever worked with time zones.
They do have some other cool features
like statically type checkable and pedantic integration,
which is kind of neat.
Anyway, they've got also an article
about why they created it.
Time flies when you're having zones, nice.
So it's a pretty interesting discussion
going through why they chose the solution they did
of creating their own and everything.
And being able to use it with mypy also is kind of cool.
So yeah.
- Yeah, shout out to Arrow and Pendulum as well
or some of the other well-known ones, yeah.
- Yeah, even at daytime UTC they found, but it's UTC zero.
And then they even talked about
how they designed it and why.
So their first thing was just create a completely new type,
but then they came up with some problems with that.
So they came up with subclassing.
So then these new types are types of date time also,
so you can use other things to go with them.
So I think that's a cool solution.
I'm not usually a fan of subclassing,
but I think the subclassing in this case
makes a lot of sense.
Anyway, what you got, of course.
That looks good.
I think it sounds so easy to be working with time,
but it's always so tricky.
I have something, keeping with the same color scheme here,
a new release for Wagtail.
And I don't believe we've talked about Wagtail before.
It's possible.
I did get a chance to use our search today,
and just reminded how nicely that goes.
I guess we talked at least mentioned it somewhere,
but Wagtail is a CMS,
the leading open-source Python CMS built on Django,
but you don't necessarily have to know Django.
It's like WordPress in the sense
that you could just go through the setup steps and run
WordPress and not even worry about the fact it's written in PHP.
>> So Wagtail is a little bit like that,
but just pip install Wagtail to get going.
It's got some really cool features.
I haven't really explored it too much,
but it's got this really cool visual designer
for people to build out web pages and stuff.
Isn't that cool? So you can hit a little plus,
get a nice whizzy wig.
I'm going to insert a heading or insert a table
or an image gallery with these images.
Has a cool tree structure so you can
Organize your content and because it's a Django you can extend it doing Django things
Which is pretty sweet and has a bunch of it you can make little snippets that you can use inside your pages
So that's pretty neat and it even has a library for managing your images
so pretty cool stuff and the news item today is an
an article by Megan Voss,
come over to the dark side with Wagtail 5.
So Wagtail 5.0 is a new release here
with a bunch of cool things.
So dark mode, if you want your website,
which is backed by Wagtail to have dark mode,
well, dark mode is a thing, which is pretty excellent.
I'm a big fan of dark mode.
It has SVG image support in addition,
scalable vector graphics in addition to just JPEGs and stuff.
It has an accessibility, an enhanced accessibility checker.
That's pretty cool.
Like if you're creating content and it's hard for people
who have to use screen readers or something,
it can tell you that you're not doing that.
Like missing paragraphs as headings,
misusing paragraphs as headings, use proper tags,
incorrect heading hierarchy, avoid skipping levels.
- Oh wow.
- You know, things like that, right?
which is certainly my handwritten stuff that's only,
you know, if I remember that that's how it's supposed to go, right?
So, pretty sweet.
- What's wrong with five H1s on one page?
- I know, I know. I really have a lot to say here, so it's all H1s.
It also has...what is the...
If you want to delete, like, say you have an image or something,
and it's in your gallery, and you're like, "Ah, not going to use this after all."
hit delete, it keeps track of if it's used in any other pages so you don't accidentally
delete something that's being used in some part of the site you didn't know about that
someone else created.
That's pretty awesome.
More snippets, more validation, and they threw away a bunch of old code so they can work
better which, you know, may even have a blog post on addressing technical debt.
So a few breaking changes, not too many, but check it out.
Anyway, Wagtail looks pretty awesome, right?
I think I may have talked about it a long time ago, but anyway.
Not the 5.0 release, because that's quite recent.
Yeah. I think it's pretty cool that that's there.
And I do have plans to play with it at some point,
but I've had plans to play with it for a while.
Indeed.
Kim out in the audience says,
"I know several one-person technical businesses
that really like Wagtail for their sites.
Easy to use for technical, competent users,
but doesn't require much of their time to maintain."
Yeah, that seems great.
Yeah, nice.
Over to you. Well, I.
I guess I go away from Python a little bit,
but we use it all the time,
so I want to talk about git so I I.
I don't think I use any other.
Revision control systems anymore
other than no CVS, no.
- With CVS and all that good stuff?
- Of course.
- Subversion, actually I touch on subversion
once in a while, but--
- I still have kind of good feelings towards subversion.
The other ones make me a little queasy.
- Anyway, the thing that I often wanna know
is just like the stuff that happened recently
on a file or something, or just on a Git repository.
RCS, Mike Felder, oh, Field-Fiedler, sorry.
Nice, RCS, wow.
takes me back.
But so get one of the things is the Git log.
So looking at what's happened recently,
but the Git log output is not something I like to do.
Actually using Git log is one of the reasons
why I often pop up like a visual tool
to look at my Git repository because it's gross.
But I forgot, and I knew that you could customize it,
but I kind of forgot how to.
so I haven't been, but this now I have
because of this article.
So there's an article called
Get Log Customization from Justin Joyce.
And so the default is something like that,
which we're showing.
It's got a really long hash number
and a bunch of information,
but it's hard to find the information you need.
One of the things that Justin points out
is that you can do just something really easy
by passing in one line.
just the flag that done like two dashes in one line,
all one word, will make it pretty nice actually.
It just does a short hash and you can kind of see
what's going on a little bit better,
but it goes a lot further.
And I'm gonna hop down to this really cool customization.
One of the things is using graph.
Graph is great, --graph,
so that you can see kind of,
it does like kind of a visual representation
of the different, what are those?
- The branches and the merges between them.
- Branches, that's it.
I always forget branches, is it branch or fork?
- And ASCII art for the win there.
- Yeah, ASCII art.
But then you can do like color and stuff.
So there's, the graph does color also
if you have that on your, on everything.
But it talks about how, it also talks about
how the one line is actually a combination of pretty one line
and abbreviate commit, which is kind of cool.
And then what I really love is this is the thing
that he comes up with at the end.
I didn't know that you could put aliases in the git config file,
or at least I did once, and I forgot about it.
But this is a pretty cool long alias.
He's got LG instead of log.
So save a character of typing right there.
But it defaults to, so it's an alias for log
with a graph with 10, so default to the last 10 commits.
And then this long format thing
that is kind of ugly to look at,
but what you get is, he talks about what it all is,
but what you get is the brand, the graph,
but you also get somebody's name highlighted of who did it
and then also how long ago.
So was it 19 hours ago or 24 hours ago or two days, three days?
Really cool. Exactly what I need usually when I'm looking at a Git log.
>> I love it. This actually inspires me to maybe play with this as well.
I usually use SourceTree.
I really like SourceTree,
but sometimes you're already in the terminal and just.
>> Yeah. So what I did is I just opened up
my home directory git config and added this alias,
and now I just use get LG.
Then I can forget all of this.
The other one of the neat things I'm like,
well, if it says by default,
you can put the default whatever you want for this alias.
But 10 lines, what if I want to see 20 lines or 30 lines?
Well, if you say get LG,
even though it has the -10 built into it and pass in a -20 or -30,
the second one overrides it.
>> That's clever.
>> It works just fine. Nice.
So thank you, Justin Joyce, for writing this up.
>> Nice job, Justin. That's pretty awesome.
All right. I saw that David Lord was the one listed there in the example.
>> Yeah.
>> Let's keep going with that theme.
>> Okay.
>> So over to historically from the Flask side of things.
So I don't want to talk about Flask,
I want to talk about Jinja.
So Jinja is the templating language that is
the default for so many frameworks.
It's not the best, I don't think.
Come on, Chameleon.
So much better.
But it doesn't matter if everyone's using Jinja.
That's what people are using, right?
It's built into all the frameworks.
You've got to jump through hoops to use Chameleon with, say,
FastAPI.
I created a library to do that kind of stuff.
But this is about Jinja.
And its origins come from Flask, originally
created by Armin Roenicker, no longer the maintainer, David Lord and folks over at
Palettes is, but this new project I want to give a shout out to does come from
Armin and it's called Mini Jinja. Like Jinja, but smaller. So Mini Jinja is a
powerful but minimal dependency template engine for Rust that's compatible with
with Jinja and Jinja 2.
So if you got a Rust project
and you wanna have those templates,
you could use this and you'd be like,
"Okay, might go well."
Python podcast.
So yeah, Rust's popular, but (laughs)
it's comparable if you got a Python app.
It's basically not 100% identical,
but pretty similar, right?
The other thing though, that's kind of interesting
is it does works with Python
through as project called mini-ginja-py.
And that allows you to use the Rust runtime
backed template engine on whatever thing it is
that you're working with, right?
Flask, FastAPI, whatever, right?
So you might wanna use this instead
when the full set of Ginja 2 features is not required
and you wanna have the same experience
across Python or Rust.
There's places where you can get a slightly better performance
sometimes than Jinja.
It was created using maturing in Py03, which is pretty cool,
like the Rust Python bindings.
And yeah, it just shows you how to set up and whatnot.
So if you're out there doing the web things,
maybe have a quick look at mini-jinja
if somehow that's relevant to you.
continuing the rustification of Python.
- Indeed, you know it's been around for a long time,
over 30 years, so surely some rust is starting to develop,
but I wouldn't have expected it to come on so quickly
all at once like that, but there you go.
- Yeah, nice.
- That's it for all of our items, I would say.
- Okay.
- I've got some extras, but I know you do too,
so maybe you go first.
- Okay, well, I was,
We were just talking at the beginning of this
before we went on air
that I was having some audio trouble last night,
but I was getting the pytest primary power course ready
and launched last night.
So chapter six, got done recording that yesterday morning
and in the evening finished editing the audio.
So the first course in a series, pytest primary power,
and to sell, so what does it cover?
It covers test functions, fixtures, built-in fixtures,
parameterization markers, and it's really the set of things
I think that you have to know to be able to be using
pytest effectively.
You could just take this first course
and I think run with it for quite a long time.
So to celebrate getting it done and back to school,
I know everybody's with kids,
their kids are probably started last week
or the week before.
- It might sound like it's for school,
but now the kids are out of the house.
You actually have time and energy to study things again.
That's my house anyway.
- Yeah, yeah.
So I'm offering a deal for it.
So 49 bucks for the first course.
And if you want to do the bundle, $99.
And the bundle's kind of fun because I've already had some,
we've got a lot of channels to get feedback.
I had some feedback this last night and this morning saying,
hey, I'm trying this on Python 3.8 and it doesn't work.
So, but it does now.
So this morning I did the,
it was like the from future import annotations
I had to do to make the annotations from 3.10
be compatible to Python.
Way back to Python 3.7.
So I tested it on 3.7 this morning.
So everything should be working.
So anyway, pretty excited about that.
- Yeah, congratulations.
That's a big step.
- If you see something like this,
you're in the right place.
So thanks.
- Yeah.
(laughing)
- How about you?
- Testing code logo, enroll in the course for 49 bucks.
Awesome.
Keeping with the course theme a little bit,
I have three new courses coming out at TalkBython Training.
We have a new HTMX plus Django course, which is going to be excellent.
A new language-based course without more detail on that, and one or two data science courses
coming quite soon.
Since it's a bunch of things, all of them not quite released yet, just point people
at training.talkpython.fm/getnotified.
And there, if you're not already in the mailing list, put your name and email in here and
you'll get to hear about them when, or keep listening to the podcast.
I'm sure I'll talk about it then as well.
I also just want to give a shout out to Cloudflare Turnstile.
I've been going through and classifying trucks, cars, crosswalks, stoplights.
moly, what a dreadful, unnecessary thing. So way back in 304 on October 2022, I talked
about turnstile, which is a user-friendly privacy preserving alternative to reCAPTCHA
and all those things. And it just sits down here. And while we're waiting, you know how
Like sometimes if you are slow filling out a form, it'll say your selection of
taxis has expired and you got to do it again.
This one automatically, I saw it while I was waiting for you to talk, talk about
your new course and bundle that thing just did a little flicker and regenerated
its validation with no user input, just in the background, I'm telling you.
Come on.
So, so how does it know you're not a robot?
Do you know?
It runs some JavaScript and it also, I think, you know, I don't remember all
the details.
It runs through a bunch of other heuristics that like they know from, I
think from your IP address talking to, cause you know, Cloudflare, like fronts
something like 25% of the internet.
So they can tell if you're going to a bunch of different sites and things, and
it kind of uses that background information.
I think, I think, but anyway, I have not even had to find a taxi to be able to
But it's made it so that you don't have a bunch of automated stuff coming in.
Exactly.
People used to be hammering on it, doing all sorts of bad stuff.
Yeah.
That's not good.
Yep.
So yeah, I'd add it for like the login page and for the registration page.
A bunch of bots were signing up.
I'm like, I don't understand why they're signing up because it's a free account
and you don't really get anything for free.
So I couldn't understand why they were all, but hundreds of them were signing up.
But hundreds of them were signing up,
and I'm like, "Okay, I've got to do something."
And then this is an improvement over Recaptcha.
All right, PyBay.
PyBay is coming up October 8th.
I will be there speaking about Python type hints
and how you can super power your apps,
something like five amazing ways and tools
you can use with your apps, I believe,
is what my topic is roughly supposed to be.
But I will be there, and people can--
if they happen to be in the San Francisco area
or want to be there, they can check it out.
They gave me a coupon.
It's a friend of speaker.
If you use that friend of speaker, no spaces,
you get 20% off regular tickets.
So that's always fun.
Cool.
Yeah.
Nice.
Yeah, always a fun trip, a road trip down to San Francisco.
And let's see, following up on your doc strings,
we got some really nice follow up here, Brian.
Rhett Turnbull says, "With regard to the docstrings article
Brian covered last episode, the Google format
allows for a raises section."
Remember I said, oh, it'd be awesome if you could say,
actually, what errors could happen?
Yeah.
That's really cool.
And Rhett uses Google docstring format for projects, type hints,
descriptive variable names.
MKDocs and MKDocs strings get pretty docstra free.
And VS Code will pull docstrings so you
can see them in the editor.
and Copilot practically writes the doc streams for you,
which is excellent.
And one second attribution,
John Hagan sent over something saying pretty similar,
say, remember we said,
look, you don't necessarily need to include the type
in the doc string, if there's a type hint,
and sure enough, you don't have to.
- Oh, cool.
- You can just give it a description, which is cool.
And also points out the syntax for how you use the raises.
So you say raises,
you give it a list of exception types, and then the description of when the
scenarios when that might happen. So for example, raises invalid factorial error
if n is less than zero is the time that that happens. Isn't that cool? Yeah.
And finally, John also points out that PyCharm has the integration for a Google
Docstrings somewhere in here.
Yeah, for Google Doc format and how to set that up.
So it'll automatically auto-complete
and render Google Docstrings when you say,
give me the quick help, Control + Q,
and it'll just pop that up as a rendered sort of thing there.
So a lot of follow-up on the Docstrings.
- Awesome, cool.
- And that's all I got for my extras.
What do you think?
Yeah.
I've got your joke and then I want to do a dad joke also after that.
Awesome.
So this one is a lesson in optimization.
Careful what you measure, careful what you ask for.
All right.
So there's this picture of two tennis ball containers.
You know, those tubes that are vacuum sealed?
Yeah.
One of them is not at all optimized.
It stores only three tennis balls.
But the one to the right says, look, if you cut the tennis balls in half,
- Cut the tennis balls in half.
You can store six tennis balls in this container.
Way more efficient use.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, I mean, your tennis game might suck, but.
- That's awesome.
- Yeah, yeah, so there you have it.
- Yeah, okay.
- Over to you to close it out.
- I've got a joke that I just,
I was reminded of the other day with,
shared with my kid, it's a whole dad joke.
So have you seen birds fly in a V formation before?
- Sure.
- Have you ever noticed that sometimes
that one side is a lot longer than the other
or it's longer than the other?
Yeah, do you know why that is?
There's more birds on this side.
(laughing)
- Amazing.
- Anyway.
It's terrible.
- I love it.
I love it.
It's a perfect dad joke.
All right, well, perfect episode as well.
Thanks for being here.
- Thank you. - And thanks everyone
for listening.
- Yeah, see you all later.
[BLANK_AUDIO]